CONVENTIONS.md, before:


# PsyNeuLink Sytle Conventions

### NAMING:

#### Content:
- Component names always end in their type (e.g., TransferMechanism, LearningProjection)
  (the only exception is the DDM)

#### Format:
- class names:
    fully capitalized camelCase [ClassName]
DEPRECATED:
    - externally available attributes that do not correspond to an argument of a constructor:
        camelCase without initial capitalization [externalAttribute]
    all attributes should now use underscore format: [all_attributes]
- arguments of constructors and methods, and any attributes corresponding to them (must be same name):
    lowercase and underscore separator(s) [constructor_arg, method_arg, object_attribute]
- externally available methods and functions:
    lowercase and underscore separator(s) (enforced by PEP8) [external_method, any_function]
- internal attributes, methods and functions:
    initial undercore, lowercase, and underscore separatos(s) [_internal_method, _internal_attribute]
- externally accessible keywords:
    all capitals and underscore separator(s) [KEY_WORD]
DEPRECATED:
    - internal keywords:
        prepend kw followed by camelCase [kwKeyword]

### GRAMMATICAL:

#### Elements and items of lists and arrays:
- "value": any specified token (numeric or string);
    generally references to the entity received, represented or output by a state or projection,
    but can also refer to the specification of an attribute∞∞
- "element": refers to the finest grade constituent (highest dimension / axis)
- "item" refers to any constituent at any level higher than the highest dimension / axis
- Example:  [[a, b, c] [d, e, f]]
            a, b, and c are elements of the first item
            d, e, and f are elements of the second item

#### Parameters, arguments and attributes:
- "parameter" refers to any specifiable attribute of a PsyNeuLink component
- "argument" refers to a specifiable value in a method or function call
- "attribute" is the generic Python term for an object member
- arguments "specify" a value or an assignment;  attributes "determine" a value or some outcome

#### Referencing:
- <definite article> `item`;  <indefinite article> item; e.g.: the `errorSource`;  an errorSource
- a value is "assigned" to an attribute; the value of an attribute is specified...
- a run is multiple executions;  accordingly, plural for "input" and "target" refers to multiple executions,
    not number of items in the array  (e.g., the input for an execution, the inputs for a run)

### DOCSTRING ORGANIZATION:

#### Module docstring sections:
- Overview
- Creating an <X>
- Structure
     - subsections for major subcomponents
- Execution

#### Class docstring sections:
- User-friendly list of constructor arguments with default values
- One line summary description.
- Several sentence / short paragraph description/overview.
- Technical information (COMMENTED OUT), with headings:
    - Description: technical description (including categor/type)
    - Class Attributes: full list of any class-specific attributes
    - Class Methods:  full list of any class-specific methods
    - Registry
- Arguments for constructor (appear as "Parameters" in html docs):
    - same order as appear in constructor
    - last ones are always (in order): params, name, prefs  (with boilerplate descriptions)
    - brief description, with pointers to corresponding attribute for more detailed information.
- Attributes:
    - first line of each is: "attribute name : type : default <value>""
    - full description of all externally-accessible attributes, including use and constraints on values;
    - organized as close as possible to order of specification in constructor, instantiation, and/or execution;
    - last two are always (in order) name and prefs (with boilerplate descriptions)
- Commenting:
    - Sections of the docstring can be commented out by preceding the section with "COMMENT:" and ending it with 
    "COMMENT" (note the terminal colon in the first identifier and its absence in the second).
    Material that is either technical in nature, features that are planned but not implemented, and features that are
     implemented but either still in development or are not being supported should be commented out.

### MODULE ORGANIZATION:
- License
- Module docstring
- Imports
- Constants & Structures
- Keywords
- Module Error Class
- Factory method (if applicable)
- Main class definition
    - standard methods (in order, as applicable):
    - \_\_init_\_
    - _validate_variable
    - _validate_params
    - _instantiate_attributes_before_function
    - _instantiate_function
    - _execute
    - function
    - _instantiate_attributes_after_function
- Functions

### rST / SPHINX:
Terminology used here:
    - references:  a formatted string (but not necessarily with a link); the four main forms are:
        - `attribute` or `method` (shows up inside a small box)
        - `text <referenced_location>`
        - KEYWORD (always all caps with underscores)
        - **argument** (of a functon or method)
    - link: a "live" reference (i.e., when clicked, navigates somewhere); 
            can be either a keyword or a text reference 
- PsyNeuLink terms should generally be references (i.e., by enclosing in back-ticks (`term`);
    - a reference should be a *link* at least the first it is used in any paragraph;
    - in subsequent appearance in the same paragraph, the term should still be formated as a reference, 
       but generally the link should be suppressed (by using the keyword role:  :keyword:`term`).
- The format for terms should be kept as simple as possible while remaining unambiguous:
    - wheverever possible, use simple backticks (e.g., `term`);
    - if the term is ambiguous (i.e., it is used by more than one module, 
        such as the attributes 'variable', 'function', or value'),
        then add further specification: `term <Module.term>`.
    - to force a term that will be automatically parsed by Spinx as an attribute or argument, 
        to appear as normal text, use the ref role:  :ref:`term`.
    - note: arguments of methods and functions can not be linked (in the way that attributes can);
        they should be boldfaced and must be verbally designated (e.g.: the **params** argument of a function...)
- Section references should be formatted as links, and also kept as simple as possible:
    - wherever possible, simply enclose in backticks (e.g., `section`)
    - to assign a link to some other description, add angle brackets (e.g., :ref:`my text <section>`) 
    - for classes that have subclasses, the titles in the rst file (that will appear in the text of the reference) 
      are plural even though the name of the file itself (to which the reference must be made) is singular;
        therefore, to have the singular form appear in the text (e.g., ControlMechanism),
        the module must be explicitly referenced (e.g., `ControlMechanism <ControlMechanism>`);
        [this appears to be redundant, but it is necessary]
    - conversely, for classes without subclasses, the title in the rst file is singular;
        therefore, to refer to the plural of such a class (e.g., InputState),
        the module must be explicitly referenced (e.g., `InputStates <InputState>`);
    - to flag references to sections that have not yet been documented (or labelled), 
        use the following construction: `section <LINK>` (so that <LINK> can be searched for replace these later).

Commit message:

Made targets arg optional for System and Process constructors (#343)
* updating devel_jdc to new gitignore and replacing idea folder

* adding dig prep file to top of branch so that dig works as expected.

* • Project
  - MONITORING -> LEARNING

* • Project
  - MONITORING -> LEARNING

* • System, Process, Mechanism, Projection, State
  - capitalized all of the above, as well as InputState, OutputState and ParamaterState

* • System, Process
  - modified some error messages

* • System, Process
  - made target(s) argument of constructors optional;
      if they are not specified, default is assigned based
      on the value of the ComparatorMechasnism(s) TARGET input_state
  - added 'ENABLED' as convenience spec for learning argument of Process
  - modified some error messages

CONVENTIONS.md, after:


# PsyNeuLink Sytle Conventions

### NAMING:

#### Content:
- Component names always end in their type (e.g., TransferMechanism, LearningProjection)
  (the only exception is the DDM)
- Components should *always* be referred to in caps
  (e.g., All Mechanisms have Projections; the receiver for a Projection is an InputState; etc.).

#### Format:
- class names:
    fully capitalized camelCase [ClassName]
DEPRECATED:
    - externally available attributes that do not correspond to an argument of a constructor:
        camelCase without initial capitalization [externalAttribute]
    all attributes should now use underscore format: [all_attributes]
- arguments of constructors and methods, and any attributes corresponding to them (must be same name):
    lowercase and underscore separator(s) [constructor_arg, method_arg, object_attribute]
- externally available methods and functions:
    lowercase and underscore separator(s) (enforced by PEP8) [external_method, any_function]
- internal attributes, methods and functions:
    initial undercore, lowercase, and underscore separatos(s) [_internal_method, _internal_attribute]
- externally accessible keywords:
    all capitals and underscore separator(s) [KEY_WORD]
DEPRECATED:
    - internal keywords:
        prepend kw followed by camelCase [kwKeyword]

### GRAMMATICAL:

#### Elements and items of lists and arrays:
- "value": any specified token (numeric or string);
    generally references to the entity received, represented or output by a state or projection,
    but can also refer to the specification of an attribute∞∞
- "element": refers to the finest grade constituent (highest dimension / axis)
- "item" refers to any constituent at any level higher than the highest dimension / axis
- Example:  [[a, b, c] [d, e, f]]
            a, b, and c are elements of the first item
            d, e, and f are elements of the second item

#### Parameters, arguments and attributes:
- "parameter" refers to any specifiable attribute of a PsyNeuLink component
- "argument" refers to a specifiable value in a method or function call
- "attribute" is the generic Python term for an object member
- arguments "specify" a value or an assignment;  attributes "determine" a value or some outcome

#### Referencing:
- <definite article> `item`;  <indefinite article> item; e.g.: the `errorSource`;  an errorSource
- a value is "assigned" to an attribute; the value of an attribute is specified...
- a run is multiple executions;  accordingly, plural for "input" and "target" refers to multiple executions,
    not number of items in the array  (e.g., the input for an execution, the inputs for a run)

### DOCSTRING ORGANIZATION:

#### Module docstring sections:
- Overview
- Creating an <X>
- Structure
     - subsections for major subcomponents
- Execution

#### Class docstring sections:
- User-friendly list of constructor arguments with default values
- One line summary description.
- Several sentence / short paragraph description/overview.
- Technical information (COMMENTED OUT), with headings:
    - Description: technical description (including categor/type)
    - Class Attributes: full list of any class-specific attributes
    - Class Methods:  full list of any class-specific methods
    - Registry
- Arguments for constructor (appear as "Parameters" in html docs):
    - same order as appear in constructor
    - last ones are always (in order): params, name, prefs  (with boilerplate descriptions)
    - brief description, with pointers to corresponding attribute for more detailed information.
- Attributes:
    - first line of each is: "attribute name : type : default <value>""
    - full description of all externally-accessible attributes, including use and constraints on values;
    - organized as close as possible to order of specification in constructor, instantiation, and/or execution;
    - last two are always (in order) name and prefs (with boilerplate descriptions)
- Commenting:
    - Sections of the docstring can be commented out by preceding the section with "COMMENT:" and ending it with 
    "COMMENT" (note the terminal colon in the first identifier and its absence in the second).
    Material that is either technical in nature, features that are planned but not implemented, and features that are
     implemented but either still in development or are not being supported should be commented out.

### MODULE ORGANIZATION:
- License
- Module docstring
- Imports
- Constants & Structures
- Keywords
- Module Error Class
- Factory method (if applicable)
- Main class definition
    - standard methods (in order, as applicable):
    - \_\_init_\_
    - _validate_variable
    - _validate_params
    - _instantiate_attributes_before_function
    - _instantiate_function
    - _execute
    - function
    - _instantiate_attributes_after_function
- Functions

### rST / SPHINX:
Terminology used here:
    - references:  a formatted string (but not necessarily with a link); the four main forms are:
        - `attribute` or `method` (shows up inside a small box)
        - `text <referenced_location>`
        - KEYWORD (always all caps with underscores)
        - **argument** (of a functon or method)
    - link: a "live" reference (i.e., when clicked, navigates somewhere); 
            can be either a keyword or a text reference 
- PsyNeuLink terms should generally be references (i.e., by enclosing in back-ticks (`term`);
    - a reference should be a *link* at least the first it is used in any paragraph;
    - in subsequent appearance in the same paragraph, the term should still be formated as a reference, 
       but generally the link should be suppressed (by using the keyword role:  :keyword:`term`).
- The format for terms should be kept as simple as possible while remaining unambiguous:
    - wheverever possible, use simple backticks (e.g., `term`);
    - if the term is ambiguous (i.e., it is used by more than one module, 
        such as the attributes 'variable', 'function', or value'),
        then add further specification: `term <Module.term>`.
    - to force a term that will be automatically parsed by Spinx as an attribute or argument, 
        to appear as normal text, use the ref role:  :ref:`term`.
    - note: arguments of methods and functions can not be linked (in the way that attributes can);
        they should be boldfaced and must be verbally designated (e.g.: the **params** argument of a function...)
- Section references should be formatted as links, and also kept as simple as possible:
    - wherever possible, simply enclose in backticks (e.g., `section`)
    - to assign a link to some other description, add angle brackets (e.g., :ref:`my text <section>`) 
    - for classes that have subclasses, the titles in the rst file (that will appear in the text of the reference) 
      are plural even though the name of the file itself (to which the reference must be made) is singular;
        therefore, to have the singular form appear in the text (e.g., ControlMechanism),
        the module must be explicitly referenced (e.g., `ControlMechanism <ControlMechanism>`);
        [this appears to be redundant, but it is necessary]
    - conversely, for classes without subclasses, the title in the rst file is singular;
        therefore, to refer to the plural of such a class (e.g., InputState),
        the module must be explicitly referenced (e.g., `InputStates <InputState>`);
    - to flag references to sections that have not yet been documented (or labelled), 
        use the following construction: `section <LINK>` (so that <LINK> can be searched for replace these later).
